# Physics77Capstone
Compilation of Code for Physics 77 Captsone 
Simulation of Oumuamua deflection through the solar system (theoretical vs. experimental)

A few years ago, an extrasolar asteroid called Oumuamua passed through our solar system. It was about 10 times as long as it was wide, and did not follow the projected path for an object of its size and “initial conditions” when entering our solar system - it behaved more like a comet than an asteroid. We intend to create a model of our solar system and model roughly how an asteroid the size of Oumuamua would have deflected through our solar system according to theory. We will then compare those findings to the actual path traveled. This project seemed a little small in scope so we also plan to play around with the initial conditions of the asteroid and see how that could affect the system. We will analyze if there is an increased likelihood to hit earth or any other planet. We will either figure out a way to plot it or create a graphical representation of the solar system.
To accomplish this task, we will have to first build a working model of our solar system. We’ll use object oriented programming, creating different celestial body classes. One will include all major sources of gravitational influence such as the planets, and maybe the asteroid belt or dwarf planets. Each object will be given initial conditions to get the system going (mass, velocity, position, etc.), and we’ll have to create a system for the gravitational influence on any given object (ie. the sun will have a larger influence on earth than mercury for example because of Newton's law of gravitation)
We also plan on dialing the masses, initial positions, and velocities of various asteroids to analyze their likelihood of colliding with other planets/major celestial bodies. We may have trouble modeling our data with so many different degrees of freedom, which is why we’ll begin with a base solar system and the theoretical path of Oumuamua. We may have to plot different sets of data to observe correlations between these initial conditions and impact likelihood. (E.g. if the mass of the asteroid is between a certain value, there is an increased likelihood of impact or close passage with Earth.) We will all be involved in every aspect of the creation, simulation and analysis processes. We intend on trying to find some sort of dataset for the actual flight path data of Oumuamua and will be comparing that to our theoretical data gathered from the simulation.

